Doc reorg: Continuous Integration (#2150)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/github_actions.rst

> Run CumulusCI from Github Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run CumulusCI from GitHub Actions
```

=================================
The "CI" in CumulusCI stands for "continuous integration".
Continuous integration is the practice of automatically running a
project's tests for any change before that change is merged to the main branch.
This helps keep the main branch in a state where it can be released at any
time, because the repository can be configured to protect the main
branch so that changes can only be merged if the tests have passed.

CumulusCI flows can be run on your own computer, or they can be run in a
CI system such as GitHub Actions, CircleCI, or Azure Pipelines. This
recipe will show how to use GitHub Actions to run Apex tests in a
scratch org after every commit. (For other CI systems the steps should

> be similar, though the details of the configuration will be different.)

Reviewer 2: Some of the above would be good to adapt for the introduction to the top-level CI section.

#.  Check out the repository at the commit that was pushed
#.  Install the Salesforce CLI and authorize a Dev Hub user
#.  Install Python 3.8 and CumulusCI
#.  Run the ``ci_feature`` flow in CumulusCI in the ``dev`` scratch org,
    and then delete the org. The ``ci_feature`` flow deploys the package
    and then runs its Apex tests.

It also configures CumulusCI to use a special keychain, the
``EnvironmentProjectKeychain``, which will load org and service
configuration from environment variables instead of from files.

Configure Secrets
-----------------
You may have noticed that the workflow refers to a couple of "secrets":
``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github`` and ``SFDX_AUTH_URL``. You need to add
these secrets to the repository settings before you can use this
workflow.

To find the settings for Secrets, open your repository in GitHub. Click
the Settings tab. Then click the Secrets link on the left.

``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI may need access to the GitHub API in order to do things like
look up information about dependency packages. To set this up, we'll set
a secret to configure the CumulusCI github service.

> First, follow GitHubâ€™s instructions to `create a Personal Access Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, follow GitHub's instructions to `create a Personal Access Token
```

Look for the ``Sfdx Auth Url`` and copy it.

.. warning::
   *Important: Treat this URL like a password. It provides access to log in
   as this user!*

Now in your repository's Secrets settings, click the 'Add a new secret' link.
Enter ``SFDX_AUTH_URL`` as the Name of the secret, and the URL from above as the Value.
Click the 'Add secret' button to save the secret.

.. note::
   Advanced note: These instructions connect sfdx to your Dev Hub using
   the standard Salesforce CLI connected app and a refresh token. It is
   also possible to authenticate sfdx using the ``force:auth:jwt:grant``
   command with a custom connected app client id and private key.

Your Secrets should look like this:

.. image:: images/github_secrets.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing the CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github and SFDX_AUTH_URL secrets

Test the Workflow
-----------------
Now you should be able to try out the workflow.
Commit the new ``.github/workflows/apex_tests.yml`` file to the repository and push the commit to GitHub.
You should be able to watch the status of this workflow in the repository's Actions tab:

.. image:: images/github_workflow.png

>    :alt: Screenshot showing a running Github Action workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Screenshot showing a running GitHub Action workflow
```

.. image:: images/github_checks.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing a successful check on a GitHub pull request

It is possible to configure the repository's main branch as a *protected branch* so that changes can only be merged to it if these checks are passing.

See GitHub's documentation for instructions to `configure protected branches <https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/configuring-protected-branches>`_ and `enable required status checks <https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/enabling-required-status-checks>`_.

Run Headless Browser Tests
--------------------------
It is possible to run Robot Framework tests that control a real browser
as long as the CI environment has the necessary software installed. For
Chrome, it must have Chrome and chromedriver. For Firefox, it must have
Firefox and geckodriver.

Fortunately GitHub Actions comes preconfigured with an image that
includes these browsers. However it is necessary to run the browser in

> headless mode. When using CumulusCIâ€™s ``robot`` task, this can be done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
headless mode. When using CumulusCI's ``robot`` task, this can be done
```

     CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github: ${{ secrets.CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github }}

   jobs:
     unit_tests:
       name: "Run Robot Framework tests"
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
       - uses: actions/checkout@v2
       - name: Install sfdx
         run: |
           mkdir sfdx
           wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-linux-amd64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
           ./sfdx/install
           echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
           sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
       - name: Set up Python
         uses: actions/setup-python@v1
         with:
           python-version: "3.8"
       - name: Install CumulusCI
         run: |
           python -m pip install -U pip
           pip install cumulusci
       - run: |
           cci task run robot --org dev -o vars BROWSER:headlesschrome
       - name: Store robot results
         uses: actions/upload-artifact@v1
         with:
           name: robot
           path: robot/CumulusCI-Test/results
       - name: Delete scratch org
         if: always()
         run: |
           cci org scratch_delete dev

> 

Reviewer 2: We've had a few questions recently about how to connect CumulusCI to a persistent org in the context of a CI system, which is possible but currently not documented. We should cover this as well.

Reviewer: Should we also cover 

1. Building managed package versions
2. Deploying to a persistent production org

so that we have a complete example CI and implementation of CumulusCI Flow to reference?

#.  Install the Salesforce CLI and authorize a Dev Hub user
#.  Install Python 3.8 and CumulusCI
#.  Run the ``ci_feature`` flow in CumulusCI in the ``dev`` scratch org,
    and then delete the org. The ``ci_feature`` flow deploys the package
    and then runs its Apex tests.

It also configures CumulusCI to use a special keychain, the
``EnvironmentProjectKeychain``, which will load org and service
configuration from environment variables instead of from files.

Configure Secrets
-----------------
You may have noticed that the workflow refers to a couple of "secrets":
``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github`` and ``SFDX_AUTH_URL``. You need to add
these secrets to the repository settings before you can use this
workflow.

To find the settings for Secrets, open your repository in GitHub. Click
the Settings tab. Then click the Secrets link on the left.

``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI may need access to the GitHub API in order to do things like
look up information about dependency packages. To set this up, we'll set
a secret to configure the CumulusCI github service.

First, follow GitHub's instructions to `create a Personal Access Token

> <https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line>`_.

Reviewer: Let's doc which scopes we need to grant.
